# poutils

This project provides the following utility programs for .pot file and .po file.

* potmerge
* poupdate
* pocheck

These programs are small, but might be handy when you need to maintain projects that are localized by using message catalog framework in one or more languages other than English.

## Files related to Localization

There are several file types related to localization of program.

* A .pot file (gettext portable object template file) is created by xgettext from source files that includes gettext calls.

* A .po file (gettext portable object file) includes translation texts in a specifc language. It is initially generated by msginit from .pot file.

* A .mo file (message catalog object file) has compiled translation texts used by an executable file. It is generated by msgfmt from a .po file.

## Programs Overview

### potmerge

potmerge reads POT data from the given files,
merges the entries by msgid,
and finally writes the resulting data to the standard output.
potmerge might be useful when you run xgettext for an individual source file.

### poupdate

poupdate reads POT data and PO data from these files respectively,
add the entries that exist only in POT to PO,
remove the entries that don't exist in POT from PO,
and finally writes the resulting data back to the PO file.

### pocheck

pocheck reads PO data from the given files,
and prints msgids whose msgstr is empty to the standard output.
pocheck can be used when you want to find which entries need to be translated.

## Platform Requirements

The source files and Makefile have been created to work properly on Cent OS 6. The programs might work on other platforms, but files might need to be changed accordingly. I'm sorry for the inconvenience caused.

## How to Install

You can install the utility programs this project provides in your computer as follows.

Change the current working directory to src.

Build the binaries.

    make release

Copy the built binaries and manual pages to the system directory (/usr/local).

    su root
    make release-install
